[WHOOSH]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: What is
it about matchmaking that
is satisfying for you?
>>MARLA MARTENSON: I get to
meet so many amazing people
from all different backgrounds,
and everybody wants love.
Matchmaking can get a
little shallow sometimes
in what people are
looking for, and I
like that spiritual
aspect to balance it out.
I get some intuition, and
I'll even send energy healing
to my clients.
>>NOORY: Didn't you
match up a woman
with a prominent owner of
a professional sports team
and they ended up
getting married?
Well, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
We've got a fascinating
guest for you.
Marla Martenson based
out of Los Angeles
is a professional matchmaker.
Marla is also a life
coach, energy healer,
and intuitive reader.
Welcome to the program, Marla.
>>MARTENSON: Hi, George.
Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in matchmaking?
>>MARTENSON: Oh my gosh.
It was a fluke.
It's so interesting, because
people always want to know,
is this something you
always wanted to do?
But I was an actress/waitress
for the first 20 years
of my life.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
I was doing TV commercials,
modeling, little gigs
and things.
And then when I was 39, I had
a pivotal point in my life
where my father passed
away from cancer.
I usually ended up
waiting on tables
more than I was acting, right?
And so I was like, I
need something else.
Please, you know, I
was praying to God.
I'd go in churches and leave
little notes, you know?
And I was doing all this
affirmations and stuff.
I don't know what I'm going to
do, what skills that I have,
but I want to do
something different.
And that's when I first
met Adolfo, my husband.
And he had a friend who was
taking over the management
position at a video
dating service and said,
hey, if you want a part-time
gig, we need somebody.
So I started working
at this place.
I was the videographer.
It was doing videos and
working the front desk.
And then from there, I went over
to a Beverly Hills matchmaking
service, which was the
high-end, the more--
>>NOORY: Very upscale.
>>MARTENSON: Upscale.
And I ended up working
there for seven years.
Started writing books, because
I had to still be creative
since I'd dropped the acting.
Then in 2010, I
went out on my own
and started my own
matchmaking service
with a business partner.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
What is a soul mate?
We hear so many
different definitions.
What do you think
a soul mate is?
>>MARTENSON: Well, I think
that we travel in soul groups.
So you and Adolfo, you
know, you guys are friends.
>>NOORY: He's my buddy.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah,
he's your buddy.
You guys maybe have had
past lives together.
My dog Macy's a soul mate.
So we go in soul groups.
And sometimes one
of these people
could be a romantic interest,
and they can come in,
and that's your soul mate.
And I think really, it's more--
in the romantic
sense, it's somebody
that you have a
great affinity with
and that you're going to
have great lessons to learn
together and be together.
It's like we're soul
to soul, you know?
>>NOORY: I hear so many
people complain afterwards
that if they have a breakup
in their relationship,
they're distraught because
they think, oh my god.
I've lost my soul mate.
Was that person intended
to be a soul mate?
>>MARTENSON: Yeah,
well, a soul mate
doesn't mean that you're
always going-- you're going
to stay together for life.
They could come in for a
certain purpose, to teach--
it's always--
it's always going to
teach you something.
>>NOORY: And it doesn't
mean just one person.
>>MARTENSON: Doesn't
mean just one person,
and it's not always
going to be easy.
You think, oh, my
soul mate, we're
going to do everything the same.
We're going to think the same.
We're going to cut our
carrots the same way.
[LAUGHS] They're going
to show you some things
that you need to learn some
lessons, life lessons, soul
lessons.
>>NOORY: When you
match people, what
are you trying to look for?
I mean, do you actually look
at the personalities of the two
individuals?
>>MARTENSON: Well, since the men
are my paying clients and men
are so visual--
[LAUGHS] so first,
I've got to look
at the looks type they like,
the location, the age range.
Maybe there's a religious
background they're looking for.
Do they want kids?
Do they have kids?
And now, George, with this
political climate we have--
never in my life did I have
to ask political affiliation
or preference, and--
>>NOORY: That comes up now?
>>MARTENSON: Yes.
There'll be-- somebody
maybe is a liberal and says,
I would never date
a conservative.
A conservative says, I
won't date a liberal.
And it gets pretty-- it
could be heated on a date.
So I have to screen
for that now.
>>NOORY: That's intriguing.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Do you do
any of it by computer?
>>MARTENSON: Well, I
hand-match everybody,
but I send them their
matches by text or on email.
>>NOORY: What's
your success rate?
>>MARTENSON: All right.
Interesting question.
So success rate
could really mean
I'm successful in
setting the client up
with the type of person
they're looking for.
But I think people mean success
rate, how many people get
married, stay in a relationship?
>>NOORY: That's right.
Second date, third date?
>>MARTENSON: I've had a lot of--
over the years,
two decades-- a lot
of marriages, a lot of
people in relationships.
And then sometimes they won't.
If they're too picky,
they've got a list too long,
maybe they're not really going
to get into a relationship.
I've had some over
the years, couples
get married, got
divorced, and then
they came and signed up again.
>>NOORY: Is it
tempting for you, when
you meet people who are friends
of, let's say, your husband,
trying to match them up?
Do you go beyond
the call of duty?
>>MARTENSON: Well, I haven't
had any of my husband's friends
as clients, but I have tried
to help a couple of them.
And of course,
you know, you want
to see our friends be happy.
So I'll do that.
I play Cupid, you know?
It's hard not-- it's
hard to shut it off.
>>NOORY: You fling arrows?
>>MARTENSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: And you
hit a few, once.
>>MARTENSON: I hit some.
>>NOORY: Are people
appreciative of what you do?
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
You know, I'm bringing a
healing to people in a way,
because even if they don't end
up in a long-term relationship,
it's that relationship
that we have.
Maybe they get some
coaching from me
or some healing or a different
perspective in some way.
And you know, they really are--
it's very rewarding for me.
>>NOORY: What has
been really one
of the most satisfying
things you've done,
a story that you
can relate for us?
>>MARTENSON: Oh, yeah.
Well, there was this one couple.
This was a couple where
I knew immediately.
When the man joined, I
said, I-- and he told me--
>>NOORY: You had
the right person.
>>MARTENSON: Yes.
When he told me what he
was looking for, I said,
I have the right lady.
I introduced them and we ended
up going to their wedding.
Adolfo played music.
They had five different
musical-- they had a harp,
they had piano, they had--
>>NOORY: Perfect.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
A gift for me there,
champagne toast.
It was just beautiful.
Yeah, it was really exciting.
>>NOORY: And it worked.
>>MARTENSON: It worked.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Are they
still together?
>>MARTENSON: [LAUGHS]
That was back--
that was, like, 15 years
ago, and you know what?
They are not still together.
But it was a beautiful--
I mean, while it
lasted, it was great.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Regina
Meredith runs a show
on Gaia called "Open Minds."
She talked with Arielle
Ford, whom I think you know,
about finding love.
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Ever since the addition
of new age culture
to society, it
seems to have almost
created a greater divide.
>>ARIELLE FORD: Yes.
>>MEREDITH: It hasn't done
what it was supposed to do,
which is to create
bridges to one another.
It's created a tremendous
amount of spiritual arrogance.
>>FORD: And judgment.
>>MEREDITH: And judgment.
>>FORD: And the truth
is, men experience
and express spirituality
differently than we do.
So we may want to sit
in the Mile High Church,
at the Unity Church,
and read certain books.
And if your guy is
coaching Little League
and volunteering at Big Brothers
and helping your mother get
in and out of the
car and just being
an all-around good
human being, what could
be more spiritual than that?
>>MEREDITH: Exactly.
>>FORD: You know, and yet,
when I talk to single women,
the first thing they say is, oh,
well, I want a spiritual guy.
>>MEREDITH: I've
heard this so often.
And most of those people
actually are alone.
>>FORD: Yes.
They're alone with their
"Conversations with God"
books and their workbooks
and their practices
and their chanting.
You know, I had
this conversation
with Elizabeth Gilbert who
wrote "Eat, Pray, Love."
And I said to her, what do you
love most about your husband?
And she said, well,
my history was
to be with guys who would go
to meditation retreats with me.
She said, but my husband
is never going to do yoga.
He's never going to meditate.
He's certainly never
doing a green juice fast.
But when I walk into
a room, his eyes
light up like it's
Christmas morning.
And he takes me by the hand
and leads me into the kitchen,
and he puts my feet up and
he hands me a glass of wine,
and then he cooks me dinner.
>>MEREDITH: Mm.
That's divine, right?
>>FORD: And she's happy.
And she understands that she
is a meditating, chanting,
green juice fasting kind
of girl, and he is not.
But he loves her.
He's devoted to her.
He's crazy about her.
And who wouldn't want that?
And yet, by most people's
standards, is he's spiritual?
Well, yes, in his own way.
Because he puts all that love in
the food, which he feeds to her
to nourish her body and soul.
>>NOORY: What do
you think of that?
Is she spot on?
>>MARTENSON: Well, that
describes me and my husband.
I'm the green juice woo-woo
woman, and Adolfo's not.
Although he's very into
crystals right now,
and he's studying them.
I've given him a
lot of crystals.
He's learning about them.
But no, he's the pool man.
He mows the lawn.
He fixes everything.
He takes care of stuff.
He's very romantic.
>>NOORY: He plays the piano.
>>MARTENSON: Plays the
piano, writes me love songs.
But no, he's not
into all the stuff.
But as the years have gone
by, I read Tarot cards now,
which he was against--
>>NOORY: You dabble
with the Ouija board.
>>MARTENSON: Oh, no.
You're not going to
bring that one up, huh?
No, you know what?
I don't use the Ouija, but I do
like the talking board, which
the Ouija has that
brand, you know?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah, yeah.
>>NOORY: Is it fun to
find the right partner?
>>MARTENSON: Is it
fun for me to find
the right partner for people?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
You enjoy that?
>>MARTENSON: Well, me and
my business partner Fredly,
we'll start doing what
we call a happy dance.
If we make a match and they're
in love or they're exclusive,
we're like, happy dance.
We turn on some music and
we dance and celebrate.
>>NOORY: What are
the demographics
of people looking for love?
>>MARTENSON: For us in
our business lately,
it's really been the
men are mid 50s and up.
60s, 70s.
We have a couple younger
guys, but it's really mostly
been the older guys.
And I like helping those guys.
Those are guys who are divorced
or maybe even never married.
But I do like that demographic.
>>NOORY: I was in St.
Louis over the week,
and I'm looking outside of
the window of a restaurant
on the patio, and I
see a guy that I'm
sure I knew because I
used to work with him.
He was my CPA years
and years ago.
And I'm looking at him and
I'm going, is that Oscar?
And I sent a couple
waitresses out.
They were afraid to
say, are you Oscar?
But he was with an older lady.
And so I went outside and I
look at him and I'm saying,
sure enough, that's
him 20 years later.
It's been 20 years
since I've known him.
I went, Oscar?
Then he went, George!
It was him.
He's 93 years old
and he was on a date
with a woman who
was in her late 70s.
And they were
having a good time.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
I think that's important
as people get older,
not to shut yourself off.
Go ahead and go on a date.
Have a lovely meal.
It's never too late.
>>NOORY: What are
people looking for?
Are they looking
for a relationship?
for companionship?
What do they need?
>>MARTENSON: Well,
with our business,
we only take on
people who are looking
for a long-term
relationship or marriage.
So we're not just a
hookup or dating service.
It's really serious.
So everybody who comes to
us does want that soul mate
connection.
>>NOORY: What percent
of people want that?
>>MARTENSON: I
think most people.
Especially women, because
the guys will say,
are your women serious?
What woman doesn't want her
prince coming on a white horse?
I mean, really in
our heart, we're
not really-- the women
don't tend to be wanting
to juggle all these men.
They really want to
find that right person.
Now the men, however,
maybe they've
had a divorce or something.
Then they kind of want
to test the waters
and go have some fun.
>>NOORY: Yeah, they're
a little leery.
>>MARTENSON: A little more.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: And do you push them
basically into going out?
>>MARTENSON: Well, if
they come to us and pay,
that means they're
ready and they want to.
But sometimes they'll think.
They--
>>NOORY: Do they
reject what you pick?
>>MARTENSON: Yes.
Sometimes they will.
>>NOORY: They do?
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
Oh, I've had guys--
I have a guy right now.
He's rejected 28
of my selections.
>>NOORY: 28?
>>MARTENSON: 28.
>>NOORY: Has he
accepted any of them?
>>MARTENSON: He has.
He's met about eight
and he's rejected 20--
because they have
to see the photo.
And they're so darned visual.
[LAUGHS] I wish I could--
>>NOORY: But people
are that way.
>>MARTENSON: People
So you just keep
going, you know?
>>NOORY: People are that way.
Of the eight he ended up
meeting or going out with,
how many has he seen since then?
>>MARTENSON: I'm
still looking for him.
He's very specific.
I mean, some of the guys that
I take on are so specific.
I mean, sometimes I say, I'm
a matchmaker, not a magician,
you know?
I'm doing my best.
And then other guys are
so easy, and they end up
in a relationship right away.
So it really depends on what
roadblocks they're putting up.
Sometimes guys think I really
want to date a supermodel.
They'll send me a name
of an Instagram girl
who has a million followers
or a model and say,
can you track her down for me?
One time a guy sent me a
picture of a model and said,
do you think you
could find her for me?
And maybe I'd like to date her.
>>NOORY: Find that model?
>>MARTENSON: That person.
And I looked at
her and I said, I
think she's dating Leonardo
DiCaprio right now.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
I said, I don't think you've got
really a chance with that one.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: But you never know.
>>MARTENSON: You
never know, you know?
I'm not going to--
>>NOORY: Do you
go seeking people?
I mean, how do you find
the guy and the woman?
>>MARTENSON: So the men will
come to us from word of mouth.
Some of our clients,
they'll send
their friends or various ways.
Some of them have read my
books or seen my website.
Now the women, I've been
doing it so long that-- well,
I'm still getting from
the episode I was on--
I think it was 2013 here.
I still get some ladies
contacting me from that
sometimes.
But they'll maybe read my books.
I have a podcast.
I have a YouTube show.
We have recruiters.
There's probably about a dozen
ways women will come to us.
>>NOORY: Lisa Garr on Gaia's
program "Inspirations"
interviewed Barbara De
Angelis about people finding
the way they wanted to love.
>>BARBARA DE ANGELIS: Being
in pain, having regret, being
angry, feeling
disappointed have nothing
to do with feeling love.
So many times in our
life-- and all of us
have gone through this,
from the time we first
get hurt as a child,
something happens,
someone disappoints us, someone
hurts us or doesn't love us
the way we think they should.
And we end up in a sense
freezing a piece of our heart,
freezing a piece
of our emotions.
So it's like a block of ice.
Something else happens and
there's another block of ice.
Bit by bit, block
by block, we end up
with frozen ice walls
around our heart.
Our love can't get out.
Other people's can't get in.
But it's there.
Just like water
doesn't disappear,
H2O doesn't disappear when
it's in the form of ice,
it's the same substance.
>>LISA GARR: Different form.
>>DE ANGELIS: --but
it needs to melt.
Love can take the form
of resistance, of anger,
of being shut off, et cetera.
So choosing to love, meaning
to feel the love, even
when we're hurt, even
when we're disappointed
is one of the great
spiritual choices.
That doesn't mean you choose
to let somebody hurt you
or you even stay with someone.
But to sacrifice
our own lovingness.
And a lot of people
watching have done that.
They can go, you know what?
Ever since this happened, I've
been afraid to love again,
et cetera, et cetera.
But that love is
what nourishes us.
Love in the form
of our heart energy
is the form of relationship.
In the form of energy up
here, it's creativity.
That source makes us juicy.
It makes us flow in life.
And so many people
need to go through what
I call the big melt,
because they've
gotten crusty and frozen.
>>NOORY: What is the big melt?
>>MARTENSON: A melting that--
ice around the heart--
>>NOORY: Or a melting of love?
>>MARTENSON: I think
it's a melting into love.
Yeah, a lot of people will say,
well, my last relationship,
I found out the person
was an alcoholic
or they cheated on me.
>>NOORY: Or a narcissist.
>>MARTENSON: Or a narcissist.
That's a big thing
nowadays, the narcissist.
So then they're afraid to get
into a relationship again.
But that's where you kind
of go back and look at maybe
some childhood patterns.
For example, let's
say you were a child
and your parents argued all the
time, and it was just very--
>>NOORY: And you witnessed that.
>>MARTENSON: And
you witnessed it,
or maybe there was even
some physical altercations.
And then in the back of
your subconscious, you're
thinking, well, being in a
relationship, being married's
dangerous.
It's scary.
It's not fun.
It's dramatic.
When you get older
and you're looking,
you think, oh, yeah, well,
I want a relationship.
I'm online.
I've hired a
matchmaker, whatever.
So you say, you maybe think
you want a relationship,
but that program's
running in the background.
Oh, no.
It's not safe.
So then you'll pick
unavailable people.
>>NOORY: Marla, let's talk a
little bit about obsessions,
because I have known
people who become obsessed
with the other person.
>>MARTENSON: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: And that's not
healthy for both people.
What causes that?
Is it an insecurity?
What is it?
>>MARTENSON: Yes.
We've got to work on self-love.
It's those patterns
from childhood.
Everybody-- anybody
you talk to will
have something that
happened in childhood,
whether they were bullied
or maybe they were abused
or something.
So it's that codependence.
They're kind of
glomming on to someone.
And I do readings too.
I work on a couple of
psychic hotlines now,
George, for fun, you know?
And I get a lot of calls
from women who want to know,
is my ex coming back?
Is he thinking about me?
>>NOORY: Do they want him?
>>MARTENSON: They want him back.
I never knew so many women
were wanting their exes back,
even if he's with somebody--
he had cheated on her
and gone with somebody else.
And they still call
me and say, but do you
think he'll come back?
And so we do some cord cutting,
those energetic cords, energy
work, because we have
cords that are attached,
especially if we've been
intimate, that attach us.
It's that if you
think about when
you're thinking about somebody
and then they call, you know?
>>NOORY: I love
that, that intuition.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
Well, that's because we have
cords attached to us that form.
So I take them through
a cord cutting.
I call in Archangel Michael and
cut those cords and release.
They've got to do some
releasing work and then
some self-love work
and maybe some energy
healing and self-esteem
work and boundary work.
All of that.
But some people don't want
to do the work on themselves.
They just want to
call a psychic.
When's the person
coming in my life?
One person even asked, I want
to know what my future husband's
name is, what he looks
like, where he lives,
and how old he is.
>>NOORY: Ha.
>>MARTENSON: And then I
said, well, I'm not Kreskin.
[LAUGHS] I don't know.
But do the work on yourself,
because frequency is always
matched.
>>NOORY: Well, you
make people happy.
>>MARTENSON: I
make people-- yeah.
>>NOORY: And do they
come back to you
after the fact, either
couple, and thank you?
>>MARTENSON: Sometimes,
and then sometimes I
find out through the grapevine
that they got married
and went off into the sunset.
I never even knew about it.
>>NOORY: They never told you?
>>MARTENSON: No.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>MARTENSON: I think--
you know what I think?
They're just so happy in
their life, they just--
and that's fine.
I don't need the thanks.
I'm just happy that
I was able to do it.
>>NOORY: Well, you know,
you're an enlightened person.
I've known you for years.
You're the Beverly
Hills matchmaker.
That was your first--
>>MARTENSON: Well,
now my moniker--
I was the Beverly
Hills matchmaker.
Now I moved to the
Valley, and now I
call myself the
mystical matchmaker.
>>NOORY: I love it.
I love it.
What is it about
matchmaking that
is satisfying for you, Marla?
>>MARTENSON: Well, I get to
meet so many amazing people
from all different backgrounds,
and what they're doing
is so interesting.
And then just helping them
find that special person.
Everybody wants love.
>>NOORY: Have you rejected
paying clients before?
>>MARTENSON: Oh, yes.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Why do you reject them?
>>MARTENSON: Well, if
they're too out of reality.
So let's say a guy's
65 and he says, look,
I don't want to date anyone over
30, or he has too many things--
>>NOORY: His goals
are way out of line.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
We'll say, look, we
can't do-- it's too hard
or it's not realistic.
>>NOORY: Are they depressed
when they walk out?
>>MARTENSON: No.
Sometimes a guy will
say, you're rejecting me?
I want to-- you know--
>>NOORY: I've got the cash.
I'm ready to go.
>>MARTENSON: But if
we can't help them,
then they're going to want
their money back anyway.
I won't be able
to sleep at night.
If I can't help him, I
don't want to take him on.
It's too hard.
I only want to take on
people that I can potentially
get into a relationship.
>>NOORY: "The Buddha
Made Me Do it."
Tell me about that.
>>MARTENSON: "The
Buddha Made Me Do it:
A Field Guide to EnLITEnment,"
is my spiritual memoir.
And that was--
I had written a couple of
other memoirs before that.
And Adolfo and I had moved
into a house from Hollywood.
We went to the Valley.
And I had this little
Buddha statuette
that somebody had given me.
>>NOORY: A big belly.
>>MARTENSON: Well, it was the
little one, like-- you know.
And it was made of wood.
And I was decluttering,
and I got rid of it.
It wasn't even Adolfo's.
But he said, hey, Marla, where
is that Buddha statue at?
What happened to it?
Did you get rid of it?
You better not have
gotten rid of it.
That's just like you to get
rid of stuff without asking me.
And I was like, I'm not
going to admit that I--
I think it's probably
in the garage packed.
I'll find it.
I started driving around
to all the spiritual--
>>NOORY: To find the Buddha.
>>MARTENSON: To replace
it, the same one.
And I went to all these
spiritual hotspots.
Couldn't find it.
He kept asking about it, so
I went to one last place.
And they didn't have
a Buddha, but they
had classes every
Wednesday night
on connecting with your
guides, crystal healing,
opening your intuition.
And I called my friend
Julie and I said, hey,
I didn't find any Buddhas.
She was my BFF
that lived nearby.
And I said, hey, do you
want to take a class?
We started taking these classes.
We got so hooked,
George, that we started
taking classes all over town.
And pendulums and
candle magic, and I
became a Reiki practitioner
and crystal healer.
And I was deep diving.
And Adolfo's like,
what's going on?
[LAUGHS] And I've been
taking it further.
I just got so--
it's been so much fun.
So it was really the Buddha
statuette that made me do it.
>>NOORY: Did you
ever find the Buddha?
>>MARTENSON: No.
>>NOORY: Never again?
And I think Adolfo only
found out the true story
when I was on "Coast" and we
talked about it, because I
never--
I didn't want to admit it.
>>NOORY: You didn't
admit it to him.
>>MARTENSON: And he
wasn't upset, you know?
It was OK.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: How'd the book sell?
>>MARTENSON: The
book is doing good.
And I have a new book coming out
I think December, this December
2021 called "The Magic Seeker."
>>NOORY: "The Magic Seeker."
>>MARTENSON: It's
a spiritual memoir.
Again, I go even
deeper where I meet
a trans channel called Riz
who channels an Indian guide
called Red Eagle.
And it was the most magical
experience of my life
when I went to this
circle of light
and this Indian
spirit spoke to me.
And he told me.
The first time-- this was
two years ago in June.
And my spirit guides-- he
talked to your spirit guides
and he says, your spirit
guides are saying write, write,
write, write, write.
Right?
And I was-- like,
started crying,
because I hadn't written
anything since "Buddha,"
and I knew I should
have been writing.
And he says, Marla,
you've got a lot in there.
Keep writing.
That's why I wrote "The Magic
Seeker," because Red Eagle told
me to, and it's
going to be great.
>>NOORY: You have an interest
still in the occult, don't you?
>>MARTENSON: I love it.
I can't get enough.
It's like-- it's
a lifetime thing.
There's so many
interesting facets of it.
>>NOORY: Has it helped
your matchmaking?
>>MARTENSON: It does,
because my matchmaking can
get a little shallow sometimes
in what people are looking for,
and I like that spiritual
aspect to balance it out.
And then I get some
intuition, and I'll even
send energy healing to
my clients, distanced.
They don't even have
to know about it.
But I'm trying to
imbue that energy.
>>NOORY: What practices
do you use for yourself?
>>MARTENSON: I use energy
healing a lot on myself.
I like to work with crystals.
I'll pull a card.
I like to use my pendulum.
I'll check maybe
on my own health
if I feel something's off.
>>NOORY: Pendulums are amazing.
>>MARTENSON: I gave
Adolfo a pendulum,
a rose quartz one the other day,
because it was an extra one.
>>NOORY: Did you do
the yes, no with him?
>>MARTENSON: Yes, and I
taught him how to program it.
He loves it.
He's getting into--
>>NOORY: It's a lie detector.
>>MARTENSON: It's really fun.
>>NOORY: I was at a party a long
time ago, and I had a pendulum.
And I wrote a piece of paper,
and I put yes, yes, right?
And no, no on the paper.
And so I would have people
with their elbow on the table
hold the pendulum.
And I said, make it stop.
Put it right in the
middle, but make it stop.
And it stopped.
It just sat there.
Then I said, now think no.
And after a few seconds,
it swayed back and forth.
Then I said, now think yes.
It would slow down
and go like that.
And the people who
were doing it were
in marvel, because there's
some kind of reaction
through your body
that's doing it.
And you're not aware of
it, but it's happening.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah, it does.
>>NOORY: Once you tune
them up to the yes and no,
you can ask them all kinds
of yes and no questions.
And no matter what
they're trying to think,
the real answer will pop up.
So I'm doing it as a gag.
It's a party.
All these people around
and couples are there
and friends are there.
And I just threw
out, did you ever
have an affair on your wife?
And it goes, yes.
And that was the
end of the marriage.
>>MARTENSON: Oh my gosh.
>>NOORY: He dropped the
thing he walked out.
>>MARTENSON: Wow.
What a story.
>>NOORY: Scary.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
But you do have to keep
your mind kind of blank,
because you don't
want to influence,
because you might want a
certain answer to come out.
So that's a little
challenge to practice with,
to keep that neutral.
>>NOORY: It's great.
Now on Gaia's "Healing
Matrix," Dr. Sue Morter
talked with a psychologist
about that moment
that she realized she was there.
>>SHAMINI JAIN: The first
one really that turned me
into just--
I'd say a devout seeker of
understanding energy medicine
and its power in
fostering healing
was my own first experience
as a client where
I just hopped on a table and
experienced a Reiki session.
I had no idea what
was going to happen.
I'd always had a
really deep connection
with sound and vibration,
because I grew up singing.
I've always loved to
sing, so I'm a singer.
So I knew about
the power of that,
and I explored the
power of mantra.
But I just couldn't
wrap my head around,
how could I study this in a deep
way beyond just brain changes?
Which was cool, but not
really what I was seeking.
I was seeking to understand
the nature of vibration.
And I remember being on
that Reiki table and all
of a sudden, I was
feeling all this energy
going through my body.
And I could notice
where the knots were
and how those knots were
connected to old belief systems
and thought patterns
and emotions that I had
and what needed to be released.
And I remember
the moment where I
had a conscious decision
in myself to say,
I'm letting go of this,
and the energy just flowed.
>>SUE MORTER: And just went.
>>JAIN: And just went.
And I thought, you know, of
course, my scientific mind
was like, this is really neat.
I mean, I just felt this!
I mean, this was
completely palpable.
I've never felt like this.
And there's such a
profound connection
here with the emotions
and the belief systems.
This has to be studyable.
So that's really where the light
went on in my mind and I said,
we've got to study this
on a scientific level.
It's so powerful.
It could help so many people.
>>NOORY: I remember-- tell
me if my memory's right.
Didn't you match up a woman
with a prominent owner
of a professional sports
team and they ended up
getting married?
I think you did.
>>MARTENSON: I don't
remember that one.
>>NOORY: I do.
>>MARTENSON: There's
been so many.
>>NOORY: I can't-- I mean,
I'm not going to mention
their names.
>>MARTENSON: Right.
Right.
>>NOORY: But I'm
pretty sure it was you.
>>MARTENSON: Maybe.
I think.
It sounds familiar.
>>NOORY: That person mentioned
you and they started dating.
And here's another example
where once you match them,
they don't come back to you.
>>MARTENSON: They don't.
I mean, I've heard people--
oh, they had a baby and
everything, you know?
Then other people, it's
great when they send me
a picture of their baby or their
wedding or something like that.
>>NOORY: What has been
the strangest thing
you've encountered matchmaking?
>>MARTENSON: Oh my gosh.
Oh, well, I mean, I have--
>>NOORY: That you can say on--
>>MARTENSON: Right.
Strangest.
Well, I have funny ones
where this one woman flew out
to Florida to meet this guy,
because some of the guys--
>>NOORY: Who paid
for the flight?
>>MARTENSON: He did.
They'll fly the
women in and have
them stay at a hotel and stuff.
[LAUGHS] And they went to this
upscale event at the hotel.
And then the woman got so drunk
that he had to wheel her out
on the luggage cart.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: No.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah!
[LAUGHS] So this is
one tip I always give.
You know, be careful about
how much alcohol you consume.
Women tend to be lightweights.
You're having a great time.
You're drinking.
Gosh, I've had a woman argue
about politics with one guy,
get up and walk out.
Different things will happen.
So be careful about that
alcohol consumption.
>>NOORY: Well, you're
right about that.
I've seen alcohol turn
people into monsters.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
Yes.
>>NOORY: They kick people
and everything else.
It's horrible.
>>MARTENSON: [LAUGHS] So
I hear some funny stories.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Well, what keeps you going?
>>MARTENSON: Well, I mean, I
have a great business partner,
Fredly, and a great
recruiter, Sandy.
And we've just got a great team.
And it just gets so exciting
when we get these new people
in, and they maybe had a
heartbreak, a bad divorce,
or maybe their wife
or husband died.
And we get to help them
infuse that excitement
and love again into their life.
So I really enjoy it.
>>NOORY: What has been the
most magical moment for you?
>>MARTENSON: Oh, the most
magical moment was connecting
with that channeler who
channels Red Eagle and talking--
actually talking to this spirit.
I'm real big into channelers,
because thinking about talking
to an entity that's coming
through that's in a different
dimension or an ET or
something-- like, you know,
there's--
>>NOORY: Are you a channeler?
>>MARTENSON: Well,
I channel my--
in a certain way.
I channel my angel, Thomas.
He's a guide, and I
can bring him through.
>>NOORY: Thomas?
>>MARTENSON: Yeah,
his name's Thomas.
>>NOORY: Just like my producer.
>>MARTENSON: I know.
And I don't call him
Tommy, but Thomas.
But I do get messages.
I've given a lot of
messages from Thomas.
And people say that--
I say, I want feedback.
And they say, it resonates.
It's true.
>>NOORY: How did you
know his name was Thomas?
>>MARTENSON: He said
it on the board.
[LAUGHS] I met him on the board.
>>NOORY: The Ouija board?
>>MARTENSON: Well, it's
not-- it wasn't a Ouija--
>>NOORY: You call
it a talking board.
>>MARTENSON: Because
it's not a brand Ouija.
It's just a board
with the alphabet.
I'm like Kar--
>>NOORY: But it looks
like a Ouija board.
>>MARTENSON: Hey, my girlfriend
Karen Dahlman, you know,
we always say we can write
the alphabet on a paper bag
and it'll work.
>>NOORY: The devil's is
going to take Karen one day,
you know that.
>>MARTENSON: No.
[LAUGHS] She's such
a wonderful gal.
>>NOORY: She is, but she
dabbles with the dark side.
>>MARTENSON: You think
it's dark, though,
just because it's a board, or--
>>NOORY: I do.
>>MARTENSON: She
does everything so--
>>NOORY: I think strange spirits
can come through a Ouija board.
You've got to be careful.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: But she swears
by it, as you know.
>>MARTENSON: Right.
Because we're only
working with the light.
We're not thinking of that.
Now if somebody used it when
they're under the influence--
drugs, alcohol, not taking
it seriously, not treating it
respectfully-- something could.
>>NOORY: Are you intuitive?
>>MARTENSON: Yes,
we're all intuitive.
>>NOORY: Did any of these
practices enhance that?
>>MARTENSON: You know,
what opened me up
and the way I got to
connect with my angel Thomas
is what she was talking
about, the last clip, Reiki,
the energetic attunements.
>>NOORY: What exactly is Reiki?
>>MARTENSON: So it's
an energy healing
modality that comes from Japan.
And what happens is a Reiki
master will attune you
with the symbols.
They'll put the symbols
into your energy field.
And so it was so interesting,
because I'd feel immediately
when I was studying Reiki
and the buzzing in my hands,
the tingling, the
flow of the energy.
And then I had some other
energetic attachments
from different people,
and I really noticed,
that's what opened me
up to be more intuitive,
having messages come through.
Having a quiet mind and being
calm is very important too.
>>NOORY: Have you used
these intuitive abilities
to match people or
not match people?
>>MARTENSON: A little bit.
With the matching, it's still
so much of the first things.
Location, age range,
looks, background,
now political this and that.
So it's not as much--
it's like, OK, well,
we've got everything on
paper that looks good.
Now it's up to you guys to
see if there's chemistry.
So not as much.
>>NOORY: But it is
an ability for you,
because you're very intuitive.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
I have been nurturing
that over the years.
>>NOORY: Does everybody
have that ability?
I think so.
>>MARTENSON: Everybody does.
That's our intuition
that we're born with.
It's part of our makeup.
>>NOORY: On the
"Inspirations" show,
our friendly Lisa Garr
once again interviewed
a spiritual teacher,
Sonia Choquette,
about these intuitive abilities.
>>SONIA CHOQUETTE: We are
all born with a sixth sense,
because it's your heart.
It is the first
organ in your body
to develop, way
before your brain,
way before your other senses.
The second organ to
develop in your body
is the cochlear, the inner ear.
And those two pick up energy and
vibration, and that informs us.
People don't know
this, but every one
of your physical senses goes
through the ear into the heart.
So your heart is
your guidance system,
and we lose it because
we are conditioned--
the majority of the planet
has been conditioned
to ignore that inner wisdom.
But we all start out with it.
>>GARR: Hmm.
It's interesting, because if you
think about a baby in a womb,
they can pick up the
feelings of the mother.
>>CHOQUETTE: Very much so.
And they're hearing everything.
We are very conscious.
And your heart is a very
intelligent, very informing
organ.
>>NOORY: What do you think
of this ability, Marla?
That's pretty good.
I mean, you've got that ability.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It works.
>>MARTENSON: I love
Sonia Choquette.
Her teachings are great.
And yeah, you just use it--
I mean, I wanted to be
able to give readings.
That's something I wanted to
do, because I'd see other people
doing it, and I just had that--
I did some plant
medicine journeys
over the last few years as well.
It helps open things up.
We do have the inner ear.
We have the third eye and
we have the third ear,
where we get those-- we
can hear those messages.
>>NOORY: Do you think this
has helped your matchmaking
abilities?
>>MARTENSON: Well, it helps me
understand people a little bit
more and have more
compassion, because we all
come from a place of some
pain in the background
from our childhood.
Like I said, everybody has
something where they're--
they just want love.
And so that helps me
understand their heart.
They are energetic beings.
And looking more at the soul
instead of, well, this guy,
he's too superficial, or
he wants this or that.
It's easy to maybe get jaded.
But I just try to see them
as just a beautiful spark
of the divine who wants to
find love and express love.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
had anybody come to you
who was just totally despondent?
(WHINY VOICE) I
can't find anybody.
>>MARTENSON: Well, they'll
say their patterns.
Yeah, I'm always
attracting the gold diggers
or the drama queens or the
high-maintenance women.
And there's something there.
I have a client who
tends to do that.
And I say, why do
you always pick
these women who just
drain you financially
or they stand you up?
And then I said,
there's something.
Why is that-- it's
working for you.
What is it?
And he thought about it.
He says, I think I
somehow like the drama.
I'm attracted to that drama.
>>NOORY: And maybe he doesn't
have to make a commitment.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
So he's working on it.
He's getting coaching.
He's working on it, because
now he's a little older,
in his 60s, and doesn't want
to just continue on that path.
>>NOORY: Is it strange
for somebody to not
want to have a relationship
at all in their life?
>>MARTENSON: Mm.
I mean, everybody's different.
I don't think so.
But society really
has that message,
that everybody should
be in love with all
the messaging and the rom-coms
and the Disney and all that.
You should have somebody.
But your path may be
just to be a teacher
or go within or learn or heal.
>>NOORY: I know a guy who
just wants to have fun.
Just wants to date.
He just-- he likes his house.
He likes his cars.
>>MARTENSON: Right.
>>NOORY: And he
doesn't want to have
to worry about a family
or anything like that.
>>MARTENSON: Nothing
wrong with it.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: You don't think so?
>>MARTENSON: I don't think so.
Every individual is--
we're all sovereign beings.
We can decide.
Because maybe in some
past lives, I really--
I like the past life stuff too.
Maybe he had
relationships that--
somebody told me--
I was wondering
why I never had the urge to
have children in this lifetime.
It never crossed my mind.
And the spirit guide, he
says, because you've done it.
You've done it so many
times in past lives.
You had a lot of kids,
a lot of family around.
This life was just about
you being with your husband
and doing some other things.
>>NOORY: Marla, what causes
a relationship to fizzle out?
It starts great.
Sparks fly.
And then a month, two months,
a year, it ain't the same.
How come?
>>MARTENSON: Because
that initial--
there's nothing more magical
than that initial spark
when you meet
somebody and you've
got those hormones flying
and that initial attraction,
and it's so exciting.
But then in reality, that's
not going to sustain.
And some people
have that addiction,
kind of that high
off of that newness
that really will not
continue, so you're going
to move into something else.
You're going to move into a
deeper relationship or more
friendship.
So people want that newness.
And that's why people
have affairs or break up
and go for that again.
>>NOORY: Would you
say that you're almost
like a psychologist?
>>MARTENSON: [LAUGHS] Sometimes
I feel like it, you know?
People need advice.
They need help.
They want to talk.
And that's why I'm now
moving into coaching as well.
I'm specializing in boundaries.
>>NOORY: What kind of coaching?
>>MARTENSON: Nancy Levin,
who's a Hay House author,
has a coaching program.
And it's specializing
in boundaries,
and I just did a whole year of
study and just got certified.
So if anybody needs
help with boundaries,
with co-dependency, if
you're a people pleaser,
can't say no, always attracting
the wrong kind of person,
so I can help with that now.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Some people-- I've known
these people through my life,
like a woman may be attracted
to a guy who can't get a job
or stays unemployed.
How does that happen.
>>MARTENSON: Right.
Right.
Well, Nancy, my teacher,
she had the same--
she had a story about herself.
She was an overachiever,
and she felt
her worth was being
a money maker,
being somebody who made a
lot of money and worked hard.
And so she'd attract guys
who weren't really working.
That was like she's
showing her worth.
Like, I'm going to take
care of everything.
I'm going to take
care of everybody.
And so it's a program that's
running from your childhood
where maybe you thought,
in order to be important
or to be loved, I have
to take care of everybody
or I have to do
everything for everyone,
or I have to make
a lot of money.
Whatever it is.
>>NOORY: It's amazing.
>>MARTENSON: The
patterns play out.
>>NOORY: How important is
people's health, well-being,
taking care of themselves to
develop that relationship?
>>MARTENSON: It's
important to people.
They always ask me, I want--
I don't want to have to take
care-- especially in the older
group that I work
in they said, well,
I don't want to have to
take care of somebody.
I don't want to be a nursemaid.
So I don't mind
dating an older guy
if he's taking care of himself,
if he's fit, if he's active,
so that's important.
>>NOORY: What's one of the
next projects for Marla?
>>MARTENSON: Well, stepping
into the coaching and getting
my book, "The Magic
Seeker," out is really--
I mean, I have the passion
for writing, the matchmaking,
coaching, the
healing, continuing
giving people readings.
>>NOORY: You love
helping people.
>>MARTENSON: I love
I do.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Do people stir
up a conversation with you
quickly when they
know what you do?
>>MARTENSON: Yes.
And that's why I
wrote my first memoir,
"Diary of a Beverly Hills
Matchmaker," which came out
in 2010, because
everywhere I go,
if I was at a party or something
and somebody would say,
what do you do, I said,
well, I'm a matchmaker.
And they'll-- oh!
What's that like?
What's your craziest story?
Tell me.
You know, they wanted to know.
>>NOORY: Help me.
Help me.
>>MARTENSON: Yeah.
So I thought, I'll
write a memoir,
a year in the life
of what it's like.
And they really get an
in-depth look at it.
>>NOORY: How do people
get a hold of you?
>>MARTENSON: My website,
marlamartensen.com.
>>NOORY: Spell your name.
>>MARTENSON: M-A-R-L-A
M-A-R-T-E-N-S-O-N.
And I've got a podcast called
"The Mystical Matchmaker."
>>NOORY: Say hi to your
husband Adolfo for me.
>>MARTENSON: Hi, Adolfo.
[NON-ENGLISH]
>>NOORY: Marla, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MARTENSON: Thanks, George.
It was so much fun.
>>NOORY: It was great.
A matchmaker who does
all the work for you,
and all you have to do
is sit back and have
the benefits of meeting people.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]